.TH servertool 1 "23 Apr 2001"
.SH NAME
servertool \- Java IDL Server Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBservertool\fR [\ \fBoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Java(tm) IDL Server Tool, servertool, provides the ease\-of\-use interface for the application programmers to register, unregister, startup, and shutdown a server. In addition to these four commands, other commands are provided to obtain various statistical information about the server.
.PP
When the server tool starts, enter one of the options at the \fBservertool >\fR prompt.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fBregister\fR \fB\-server\fR\ \fIserver\-class\-name\fR \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIalternate\-server\-name\fR \fB\-classpath\fR \fIclasspath\-to\-server\fR \fB\-args\fR \fIargs\-to\-server\fR \fB\-vmargs\fR \fIflags\-to\-be\-passed\-to\-Java\-VM\fR 
Registers a new server with the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). If the server is not already registered, it is registered and activated.
.TP
\fBunregister\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-ID\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ]
Unregisters a server from the ORBD.
.TP
\fBgetserverid\fR \fB\-applicationName\fR\  \fIname\fR 
Returns the server id from the ORBD that is associated with a server.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
Lists all information about all servers registered with the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). In response to this command, the server id, server name, and the corresponding server application name for each server in the ORBD is retrieved and displayed to the user.
.TP
\fBlistappnames\fR
Lists the application names for all servers currently registered with the ORBD.
.TP
\fBlistactive\fR
Lists all information about all currently active servers on a machine. The active servers have been launched by the ORBD and are currently running. In response to this command, the server id, server name, and the corresponding server application name for each active server is retrieved and displayed to the user.
.TP
\fBlocate\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-id\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ] [ \fB\-endpointType\fR \fIendpointType\fR ]
Locates the endpoints (ports) of a specific type for all ORBs created by a registered server. If a server is not already running, it is activated. If an endpoint type is not specified, then the plain/non\-protected endpoint associated with each ORB in a server is returned.
.TP
\fBlocateperorb\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-id\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ] [ \fB\-orbid\fR \fIORB\-name\fR ]
Locates all the endpoints (ports) registered by a specific ORB of registered server. If a server is not already running, then it is activated. If an \fIorbid\fR is not specified, the default value of "" is assigned to the \fIorbid\fR. If any ORBs are created with an \fIorbid\fR of empty string, all ports registered by it are returned.
.TP
\fBorblist\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-id\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ]
Lists the integer mapping for the ORBIds. An ORBId is the string name for the ORB created by the server. When a server initializes an ORB with a particular ORBId, an integer mapping for that particular ORBId is obtained. This integer mapping is put into the object key to help in locating the correct ORB in the server during requests on the Object Request Broker Daemon (ORBD). If the server is not already running, it is activated.
.TP
\fBshutdown\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-id\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ]
Shuts down a registered, active server. During execution of this command, the \fBshutdown()\fR method defined in the server application program is also invoked to shutdown the server process appropriately.
.TP
\fBstartup\fR [ \fB\-serverid\fR\ \fIserver\-id\fR | \fB\-applicationName\fR \fIname\fR ]
Starts up or activates a registered server. If the server is not running, this command launches the server. If the server is already running, an error message is returned to the user.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Lists all the commands available to the server through the server tool.
.TP
\fBquit\fR
Exits the server tool.
.SH ENVIRONMENT\ VARIABLES
.TP 
\fBCLASSPATH\fR 
Used to provide the system with a path to user\-defined classes. Directories are separated by colons. For example: 

\fB\&.:/Users/vlh/classes:/Library/Java/Home/Extensions\fR 
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBorbd\fR(1)
.PP
See (or search \fBjava.sun.com\fR) for the following:
.TP 
\fISetting the Classpath\fR @
.nf
.if n http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4/docs/tooldocs/solaris/classpath.html
.if t http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4/docs/tooldocs/solaris/\\
.if t 		classpath.html
.fi
